
Name: Simon K. Johnston
Email: johnstonskj@gmail.com

Media type name: application
Media subtype name: vnd.datalog

Required parameters: None.

Optional parameters:
The optional "features" parameter allows the transport to identify language features
used within the representation. The value of this parameter is a
comma-separated list of feature identifiers supported by the specification.
Feature identifiers conform to the following EBNF production.

    id ::= LC_ALPHA ( ALPHA | DIGIT | UNDERSCORE )* ;

The purpose of this parameter is to save a client from having to parse a
document if the features identified in the parameter are unsupported by them.
If this parameter is specified more than once its values MUST be aggregated
into a set, removing duplicates.

The optional "dialect" parameter identifies the tool which generated the document,
there are some existing tools with extensive usage that deviate from this core
specification. Dialect identifiers conform to the same `id` production
described for feature identifiers.

If this parameter is specified more than once, the first value MUST be used
and any subsequent value MUST be discarded.

Encoding considerations: 8bit
The content encoding of a Datalog text document is always UTF-8

Security considerations:
This media type does include program code for a Datalog interpreter to
execute. However, as Datalog is a restricted deductive logic language
it's execution environment is limited to entailment and query, and not
capable of general purpose programming.

The Datalog language does contain references to additional resources
that may be required to complete a program. For example, an "input"
processing instruction will add facts from an external resource (using
IRIs) to an extensional relation whereas the "output" processing
instruction will be some local resource that may be written to. The
ability to include malicious data in an input file is limited by the
supported representations such as CSV. The ability to write to a local
system may be intercepted by a parser to redirect to safe locations,
and as such the allowed reference is always relative.

This media type requires no privacy or integrity services.

Interoperability considerations:
A number of vendors have extended Datalog with additional syntax, this has
been a general problem for some years. The introduction of a common standard,
and support for the "dialect" parameter will help clients understand the
potential parsing issues of a specific document.

Published specification:
https://datalog-specs.info/vnd_datalog_text/abstract.html; Version: 1.0, 2
April 2022.

Applications which use this media:
Applications that need to upload, download, or transfer Datalog programs.

Fragment identifier considerations:
Not supported.

Restrictions on usage:
None.

Provisional registration? (standards tree only):
none.

Additional information:

1. Deprecated alias names for this type: None.
2. Magic number(s): None.
3. File extension(s): dl
4. Macintosh file type code: TEXT
5. Object Identifiers: None.

General Comments:


Person to contact for further information:

1. Name: Simon Johnston
2. Email: johnstonskj@gmail.com

Intended usage: Common
For the interchange of Datalog programs

Author/Change controller: none.
